Troubleshooting is a form of problem solving, often applied to repair failed products or processes on a machine or a system. It is a logical, systematic search for the source of a problem in order to solve it, and make the product or process operational again. (Wikipedia)
Learning troubleshooting techniques can go a long way, not just fixing computers, gadgets, appliances, or machines. Troubleshooting techniques can even be used to analyze certain situations in life in order to not repeat the same mistakes over again. But since the specific field in which the troubleshooting techniques to be used is electronics. It would be unwise to discuss troubleshooting in other areas. 
In the past 5 months, I have learned a lot about troubleshooting. At the start of the class with the subject code CPE 421 – Trouble Shooting of Computer Systems, everyone in the class was assigned a different parts of a computer from the Monitor to the different parts in the Motherboard and we all have to prepare a brief presentation explaining the component, the history of the said component, and explain the different scenarios how can the component break and explain the different troubleshooting methods to follow in trying to fix the component taking into account the scenario when the component broke in the first place. After listening the presentation of the whole class, I have now a different perspective in computers. Before, when I use computers and accidentally breaks it, panic and fear overwhelms me, thinking that someone will get mad at me for breaking it. Now, when I break something that is electronics related, I can now defend myself when someone will get mad at me because I know how to system works, I can try to fix it myself for free and not care about very expensive repair fee in going to a computer specialists. But, note that in fixing the device yourself have some limits, especially if you are beginner. Some computer issues require a very specific advance techniques that are not recommended for beginners so you would need to go to a computer specialists in order to fix the issue. But as long as you take care of your computer system in the first place, you wouldn’t need to face a scenario where in your computer will break. Proper maintenance would be needed to take care of your computer system, there are a lot of resources online on how to take care of your computer. Going back to troubleshooting process, when you are facing a computer issue, don’t panic. There are many basic troubleshooting techniques you can use to fix whatever issue you may be facing. So to summarize the troubleshooting methods to follow, the first stage is identifying the issue. The second stage is performing the steps to fix the issue based on your collected information from the first stage. To identify the issue, you must gather information on how the issue happened. There are many different things that could cause a problem with your computer. No matter what’s causing the issue, troubleshooting will always be a process of trial and error – in some cases, you may need to use several different approaches before you can find a solution; other problems may be easy to fix; some very tricky or geared toward advanced computer specialist. 
To start your troubleshooting journey, first write down your steps. Once you start troubleshooting, you want to write down all the information you knew from the start, for example: what did you do to your computer prior to it breaking, did you install an application in the computer, did you observed a glitch in the screen, etc. This way in asking other people to help, you can tell them what you observed in the computer. 

Next that you can do is taking notes about error messages or beeps. If you start the computer and you observe something that is not in the screen before, write it down. Be sure to write down as much information as possible, you may be able to use this information later to find if other people are having the same error. 
Next, check the cables. This may be obvious but, your cable may have been damaged due to rats nibbling on it, or lightning strikes. Make sure all the cable are properly connected and if you are replacing the cable, make sure that the new cable is the same as the old one. 
So, now that we have finished identifying the issue, we can move on the second stage, which is performing the steps in fixing the issue. Let’s say your computer won’t turn on. 
Solution 1: If the computer does not start, begin by checking the power cord to confirm that it is plugged properly in the computer and the power outlet. 
Solution 2: Make sure that the power outlet that you are using are working outlet. Test another electrical device to confirm if the outlet works.
	Solution 3: If the computer uses an AVR or automatic voltage regulator, check if that is turned on. You can also plug another device to the AVR to confirm that it’s working properly. 
	Solution 4: If you are using a laptop, the battery may not be charged. Plug the charger into the power outlet, then try to turn on the laptop again. 
	Most of the time, computer issue can be fixed using simple troubleshooting techniques, like turning off the computer and turning it on again. It’s important to try these simple solutions before resorting to more extreme measures. (RESOURCE) If you still haven’t fixed the issue you are having, you may need to ask someone more versed with computer for help. Searching the Web, can be an easy starting point. It’s possible that other users may have experienced the same issue you are having. And it’s possible that solutions to these problem are already posted online. 
Just keep in mind that most computer problems have simple solutions, although it may take some time to find them.

